\label{chapter:introduction}

% Thesis introduction outline: https://student.unsw.edu.au/introductions

% 1) State the general topic and give some background

The study of two binary alloys in materials physics is a pursuit of incredibly
broad impact. Industries as distant as the large commercial materials such as
steel and aluminium producers and burgeoning markets of nano-fabrication and
optoelectronics are affected by research in binary alloys.

One surprising aspect of binary alloys is the rich diversity of properties and
behaviours they display. Because material properties depend on the
microstructural details of the material they have a strong path dependence.
Grain boundaries, vacancies, dislocations and other microstructural artifacts
are all intimately tied to the manufacturing process of the alloy. This means
that the study of solids can never be completely separated from the study of
solidification. As such, the diversity of material properties and behaviours we
see in binary alloys can be directly attributed to the diversity of processes
for their construction.

Given the importance of these systems, it is critical to construct models that
can explain the diversity of behaviour we see in them. At the moment, models of
solidification can be categorized by the length and time scales they accurately
describe. At macroscopic length and time scales, we have continuum methods of
heat and mass transport and associated finite element methods of analysis. These
methods are appropriate for studying large castings, for example. On length
scales $\mathcal{O}(10^{-6}m)$ to $\mathcal{O}(10^{-3}m)$ we use
\textit{Phase Field} methods to study phenomena such as dendritic growth and
chemical segregation. On still finer length scales from $\mathcal{O}(10^{-9}m)$
to $\mathcal{O}(10^{-6}m)$ and on relatively long timescales, we have the
methods of \textit{Phase Field Crystal} (PFC) theory and dislocation dynamics.
These methods are appropriate for studying nanoscopic changes that occur on
diffusive timescales such as dislocation motion, creep, grain boundary motion
and micro segregation. At a still finer scale and on very short time scales
($\mathcal{O}(10^{-12}s)$) we have the methods of molecular dynamics and density
functional theory. These methods are appropriate for the study of transport
coefficients and interaction potentials.

% 2) Outline the current situation

In this thesis, we'll focus on the binary PFC theory. The binary PFC theory has
been successful in describing a broad selection of phenomena in binary alloys.
These successes include the Kirkendall effect \cite{ELDER11_KIRKENDALL, LU15},
solute drag \cite{GREENWOOD12}, clustering and precipitation \cite{FALLAH12,
FALLAH13, FALLAH13_AlCu_experiment}, colloidal ordering in drying suspensions
\cite{GANAI13}, epitaxial growth and island formation \cite{ELDER10_NANOISLAND,
LU16}, and ordered crystals \cite{ALSTER17} to name a few. 

The PFC theory is derived from Classical Density Functional Theory (CDFT) and as
such, it is a sort of simplified density functional theory. In practice, two
different variants of the PFC theory are used: the original model developed by
Elder \textit{et al} \cite{ELDER07} and the Structural Phase Field Crystal
(XPFC) model developed by Greenwood \textit{et al.} \cite{GREENWOOD11_BINARY}.

The original model is a very reduced form of CDFT and it therefore lacks
completeness in its ability to describe binary alloys. Specifically, the
original model uses an expansion in concentration that limits its ability to
describe a realistic phase diagram. The original model also uses a very
simplified correlation kernel which limits its ability to describe a variety of
crystal lattice structures.

The XPFC model is an improvement that ameliorates both of these problems. The
concentration is left unexpanded allowing for construction of realistic global
phase diagrams instead of local expansions. The XPFC model provides a
phenomenology for modelling correlation functions that succeeded in describing
solidification of a variety of lattice structures.  Simplifications of the
multi-modal approach first introduce with the XPFC formalism has been used to
produce hexagonal, square, kagome, honeycomb, rectangular and other lattices in
2 dimensions \cite{MKHONTA13}.

% 3) Evaluate the current situation and identify a gap

In introducing its phenomenology for modelling correlation functions, the XFPC
theory tacitly assumes that there is some preferred structure at high
concentration and some other structure preferred at low concentration. This
assumption can be limiting in situations that have a specific crystalline
structure at intermediate concentrations such as materials with a syntectic
phase diagram. At the syntectic point a solid of intermediate concentration
solidifies along the interface between a solute rich and solute poor liquid. The
XPFC model also assumes no long wavelength correlations in the concentration
field which, in practice, means the model has an ideal free energy of mixing.
This is another limitation of the XPFC model because the enthalpy of mixing is
not generally zero for binary alloys.

% 5) State the research goals and aims

The goal of the current research is to present two improvements to the
binary XPFC theory. The first improvement is a more general phenomenology
for modelling pair correlation functions of a material. The second 
improvement is to extend the free energy of mixing beyond ideality to 
account for circumstances when the heat of mixing is not negligible.

% 6) Outline the order of information

The remainder of this thesis is divided into 5 chapters:
%
\begin{description}
    \item [Chapter \ref{chapter:cdft_intro}] { Classical Density Functional
        Theory (CDFT) is introduced and derived from fundamental principles of
        quantum statistical mechanics.
    }
    \item [Chapter \ref{chapter:cdft_of_freezing}] { CDFT theory of
        solidification is described and discussed. The density functional
        theory is extended to a dynamic, non-equilibrium theory and the Phase
        Field Crystal (PFC) Theory is introduced as a simplified density
        functional theory.
    }
    \item [Chapter \ref{chapter:binary}] { Binary PFC theory is established and
        previous simplified models are summarized and discussed.
    }
    \item [Chapter \ref{chapter:improvements}] { Improvements to the XPFC model
        are established. This chapter contains novel contributions to the field.
    }
    \item [Chapter \ref{chapter:applications}] { Concludes the thesis by
        applying the improved XPFC model to the problem of multi-step nucleation
        of nanoparticles and discusses potential future applications.
    } 
\end{description}
%
